- July 2010 DEC report for SEAWAY~CAPITAL ARES Districts combined -

Counties of Renfrew, of Lanark, of Leeds-Grenville, of Prescott-Russell & of
Stormont-Dundas & Glengarry, Cities of Ottawa & of Cornwall

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The Renfrew County West (RCW)-ARES group Wednesday evening weekly ARES nets
  normally link to the 9035 IRLP reflector, but a problem with our node was
reported by the reflector operator, so we will not be using the reflector until
we have resolved the problem.

- As there was no other activity in July, and the June ARES extensive report
  was sent late, it is included here.

- RCW-ARES on Saturday May 29th, had 5 members and 1 XYL that turned out to
  support the Phoenix Incredible Race in Deep River.  The race is a fund-raiser
for the Phoenix Centre, a children's mental health treatment centre located in
Pembroke and providing service to Renfrew County Families.  This was our first
experience with the Incredible Race which is loosely based on the TV program
the Amazing Race, but in this case the 8 teams of 4 rode bikes between the 12
event stations.  RCW-ARES provided race safety and logistics with a net control
station (VE3ZLO) at the race end point and 2 roving operators (VA3SUR and
VA3AUL).  We also ran an event station with VA3DNA and VA3BIX and his XYL and
part of the task there was for one team member to instruct the rest of the team
in assembling a puzzle using FRS radios.  This proved to be quite a challenge
for some of the teams!  The day was very successful and a good time was had by
all.

- On Saturday June 12th, a similar race was held in Pembroke with 12 teams
  participating. For this one, Dale VA3DNA acted as net control while Dwight
VE3ZLO, Mike VE3ODJ and daughter Cloe, Richard VA3BIX and XYL Brenda, Yvonne
VE3RYA and EC Bob VE3YX roved and manned checkpoints. Some of the checkpoints
had fairly straight forward tasks while others were quite challenging. Richard,
Brenda and Yvonne operated the ''puzzle with FRS radios'' checkpoint for this
race.

- On Sunday June 13th, RCW-ARES again provided communications support for the
  Miramichi Lodge Paddlequest. The weather was excellent, but the water was
very low this year, making it difficult for the rescue boats to get to where
the canoes and kayaks were. There were 2 minor rescues of overturned boats,
both near shore. There were about 100 participants in about 80 boats. The ARES
participants were: Fred VA3FPB - organizer and rover, Dale VA3DNA - net
control, Mike VE3ODJ - in the Pembroke Fire Dept. boat, George VE3GPD - in the
OPP boat and Dwight VE3ZLO - in the Base Petawawa Fire Dept. boat. Another
RCW-ARES very successful operation!

- RCW-ARES group on June 26th and 27th, along with the Renfrew County ARC set
  up a Field Day station in our usual location: Riverside Park, Pembroke. We
operated 2A, but there was a lot more chit-chat than operating :-) We haven't
yet built band filters for the stations, so there was a lot of QRM between
stations. There is a winter project for the group to perform. We have been
using a logging program written by Bill VE2IQ. A Netbook for each station is
linked by WIFI to an old laptop that acts as a server to keep the log data.
Either Netbook can be used for any band and mode and will have access to the
appropriate log info. ~ At noon, we had a barbeque which was much more popular
than contesting, although there were a couple of operators who kept going
through lunch. It took over 3 hours to set up, but when at 5 min. before the
end of the contest at 2 PM, thunder was heard in the distance, it took only 45
min. to return to a bare field! In the end, the storm didn't materialize and
for once we had a dry Field Day. As usual, we all had a good time. Thanks to
everyone who organized and participated: too many to list!

Number of Registered Stations: 21
Number of Net Sessions, Drills or Tests This Month: 4

- The Cornwall ARES group’s EC has officially listed AECs Jim Richardson -
  VE3AFV and Joe Scott - VE3ADB in the latest review of the City of Cornwall’s
Emergency Plan – June 2010.  Comments on the communications portion of the plan
have been requested.  EC Earle – VE3IMP has asked for a projected release date
of the new plan from CEMC Bradley with no word yet.

- The ARES training that was planned for July 24, 2010 is on hold pending the
  release of some training material from DEC Mike – VE3IPC.

- Plans are to have the DEC as our Guest Speaker at the next SVARC’s next
  meeting planned for Wednesday, September 29, 2010.

Number of Registered Stations: 10
Number of Net Sessions, Drills or Tests This Month: 4
