~ July 2011 - [Eastern Ontario] SEAWAY~CAPITAL ARES Districts ~

Counties of Renfrew, of Lanark, of Leeds-Grenville,

of Prescott-Russell & of Stormont-Dundas & Glengarry, Cities of Ottawa
& of Cornwall

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The Ottawa-ARES group tested 6 Repeaters, which is of all EMRG/Ottawa ARES
  Repeaters plus the Winlink VHF node, VHF BBS and VE2CRA (Club owned repeater
included in our emergency plans).  Thanks go to the participants who were:
VA3QV, VE3FFK, VA3BIT, VE3HAB, VE3KMV

- No other group activity to report for July.

Number of Registered Stations: 67

Number of Net Sessions, Drills or Tests This Month: 4

- The Lanark North Leeds (LNL)-ARES group consisting of 14 individual members
  supported, on June 11th and 12th, the annual Rideau Lakes Cycle Tour (RLCT),
which was organized by the Ottawa Bicycle Club.  The tour runs over 4 separate
routes; however, only the main route from Ottawa to Kingston via the Perth and
Westport areas is supported by amateur radio operators and support vehicles. On
Saturday, the riders travel from Ottawa to Kingston, stay overnight; and, on
Sunday, they return back. On both days, the amateur radio operators established
a Net Control at Westport Hill and co-ordinated their efforts with other
amateur radio groups in the Ottawa and Kingston areas to provide an end-to-end
support network for over 2000 registered riders.  As the main body of riders
passed through each of the 3 areas, Net Control responsibilities were handed
off to the next group of operators.  As opposed to some previous years, the
weather this year was excellent with only some occasional minor rain showers.
This resulted in many fewer emergency dispatches, bike repairs on-route and SAG
pick-ups of trailing or tired out riders.

LNL-ARES Operators were: VA3KAI (Event Co-ord); VE3OJC; VE3BSB; VE3GXW; VE3BNZ;
VE3VY; VA3GTY; VE3NTH; VE3PMA; VE3GPU; VE3LSW; VE3CGD; VE3WSY; and VE3UIX.

Number of Registered Stations: 55

Number of Net Sessions, Drills or Tests This Month: 4

- The Renfrew County West (RCW)-ARES group have installed a packet/voice system
  in the Red Cross building in Pembroke. The radio is an FT-1900 purchased by
the Red Cross. The antenna is one that we have had on the roof of the building
for many years. The TNC is a KAM V7.1 donated by RCW ARES. The interface box is
homebrew and allows instant switching from packet to voice. The TNC is
connected to an older computer belonging to the Red Cross which has Outpost
installed.  Packet and voice comms have been tested through PTALEX/VA3RBW in
Pt. Alexander, PEM/VE3NRR in Pembroke and FOY/VE3UCR in Foymount.  The TNC has
100K of memory dedicated to the PBBS (VE3AGN-1) which can be used as a central
BBS for Outpost for any Pembroke centered events. (Our normal Outpost central
BBS is VA3RBW-1 in Pt. Alexander).

- The power supply is a modified PC supply and is connected to a computer type
  UPS. The building has a generator which starts automatically after 15 min. of
power outage. The UPS will keep the radio and TNC powered up for some hours,
but the computer has no backup power.

- 2 members of the Red Cross are studying for their Ham License.

Number of Registered Stations: 20
Number of Net Sessions, Drills or Tests This Month: 5
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

District TOTAL

Number of Registered Stations: 186

Number of Net Sessions, Drills or Tests This Month: 13
