~ May 2011 - [Eastern Ontario] SEAWAY~CAPITAL ARES Districts ~

Counties of Renfrew, of Lanark, of Leeds-Grenville, of Prescott-Russell & of
Stormont-Dundas & Glengarry, Cities of Ottawa & of Cornwall

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The Ottawa ARES / EMRG group held their regularly scheduled monthly test of
  all group repeaters in Ottawa on April 7th.  Thanks go to the test
participants; VA3QV, VE3RNM, VE3UU, VE3KMV.

- The Ottawa ARES / EMRG group participated in the April 16th District wide
  Mutual Aid deployed exercise by piggybacking their own ‘go-kit check’ and
deployment exercise of their group members on top of the ARES District’s
deployed Mutual Aid exercise.  About 35 hams participated in either the ARES
District meeting (Contact DEC VE3IPC for details) or the Ottawa portion of the
deployed exercise.  The Ottawa ARES / EMRG members participating were: VE3ZTU
VE3XEJ VE3XGP VA3BGB VE3IHI VA3BIT VE3SRS VE3BQP VE3RGC VA3VXN VA3DGN VE3CBJ
VA3UNK VE3KOY.

==============================================================

- A number of the Ottawa ARES / EMRG group members and some non-members
  participated in the May 1st CNCycle for CHEO (Children’s Hospital of Eastern
Ontario)

The one day event participants were; VA3UNK, VA3PSL, VA3VXN, VA3DGN, VE3SMF,
VE3ZTU, VE3KMV, VE3XRA, VE3CPH, VE3IHI, VA3QV, VE3FFK, VA3BIT/bike mobile,
VE3TLY/bike mobile, VE3BUP/bike mobile, VA3JME, and VA3SHR safety and
situational awareness Comms.

- Ottawa ARES members on May 4th participated in the monthly repeater test
  (systematic test of all group owned repeaters) (participants not recorded
this time, typically about 4 members show up).

- A number of the Ottawa ARES / EMRG group members participated in the two day
  event of May 6th & 7th in the Lanark Highlands Forest Rally for Motorsport
Club of Ottawa.  This was not an official Ottawa ARES event however; there were
significant participation by our members.

Event participants were KC2WLN, VA3OHA, VA3MPK, VA3JUS, VE3PYE, VA3PTG, VE3WOD,
VA3JME*, VE3JNE, VE3FFK*, VE3FMF, VE3RKS, VE3VRS, VA3HOL, VA3FXF, VA3BFN,
VE3SWP, VA3IZY, VA3VRM, VA3BRS, VA3GLN, VA3BIT*, VE3HWL, VA3BGP, VA3SM,
VE3BSM*, VE3ZTU*, VE3XFT, VE3TSD*, VE3RVP, VA3KNB, VA3UNK*, and VE3VPL safety
communications.  Rally area is out of cellular communication range. The starred
Callsigns indicate Ottawa ARES / EMRG members with the others coming from
elsewhere.

- Many Ottawa ARES / EMRG group members attended the May 14th Canwarn training
  session along with none members.  The 1/2 day training course was attended by
group members; VE3KOY, VA3BIT, VA3JME, VA3UNK, and VE3FFK.  FYI; though there
is no Canwarn net activity in the Ottawa area, the course was worth taking.

- The Ottawa ARES / EMRG group was notified on May 19th of a city low water
  advisory due to a failure of a major pipe carrying potable water to the south
end of the city, that area has had water use restrictions imposed.  As part of
their contingency planning, the City Office of Emergency

Management asked if Ottawa ARES / EMRG would be interested in providing
communications between water distribution points, as an opportunity to activate
EMRG.  (We haven't had to be activate, so far).

- Next on the calendar for June; Rideau Lakes Bicycle tour
  (Ottawa-Kingston-Ottawa), the ‘Grandville’ training course and exercise
(Canadian Emergency Management College) session in Ottawa and, of course, many
Field Day operations across Ottawa.

- It's been a busy month.  ARES activity reports now being submitted by AEC -
  Mike VE3FFK (taking over reporting duties from Tyler - VA3DGN).

Number of Registered Stations: 67
Number of Net Sessions, Drills or Tests This Month: 4

============================================================

The Renfrew County East (RCE)-ARES group has been involved with the following :

1:   In April AEC Ron Sinclair - VE3JRN and AEC Jim Rivett - VA3JER attended
the District ARES deployed exercise & conference in Ottawa which proved to be
an eye opener.  Lesson learned was that we packed too much for what was needed
for the scenario.

2:  Approximately 30 Amateurs comprised of members from the VE3STP repeater
group, some ARES members from both RCW & RCE-ARES groups and some Amateurs from
the Renfrew County region attended the Canwarn training session that was giving
in Renfrew Ontario.  It was held at the Renfrew Best Western and was put on by
Peter Kimbell of Environment Canada.

3: Two RCE-ARES group members AEC Ron Sinclair - VE3JRN and Wayne Greenough -
VE3JSQ went up the mountain top (Mount St-Patrick) to the VE3STP repeater tower
site and cleared brush and trees from around the tower and transmitter building
proximity.  This work was done to improve the RPT reception and transmission
and to reduce the fire load (combustibles) around the site.  It’s a RPT site
responsibility that we must maintain for improved RPT operation and area
safety.

Number of Registered Stations: 17
Number of Net Sessions, Drills or Tests This Month: 4

==============================================================

Eastern Ontario ARES District Mutual Aid Program 2011 Report:

- The Eastern Ontario ARES District held its 7th annual conference in Ottawa on
  April 16th.  Again this year we started with conducting our second deployed
exercise – this year with the focus fully placed on the staging area aspect to
test that part of the ARES District Mutual Aid Program [DMAP] manual, which is
a set of SOPs for when an ARES group invokes the Mutual Aid assistance program
in a call for outside ARES EmComm help.

- Last year ALL aspects of the ARES DMAP was tested in a first deployed
  exercise and found that the biggest problem we had was with the staging area.
All other aspects worked well.  We came to realize that this was the area that
needed a lot of work and we were determined to get it right.  This year we did
that, but we still have some lessons learned, however it was much better than
last year and we have identified the few kinks that need to be ironed out and
reflected in the ARES DMAP manual.

- Afterwards the ARES District annual conference was held at the Ottawa Fire
  Training Center – thanks to the Ottawa ARES group, and much was learned from
the exercise debrief providing us with the lessons learned we need to work on
regarding the staging area for further improvements.  We won’t be holding any
more deployed ARES DMAP exercises in the future as part of our annual ARES
District conference, as we are now passing on that responsibility onto the ARES
group leadership teams to exercising all aspects of the ARES DMAP manual so
that each their ARES group gets this down to a science – they need the
experience at the group level now.

- Version 2.0 of the ARES DMAP manual came as a result of the overhauling of
  the previous version, and now there are a couple of tweaks we still need to
do, which will appear in version 2.01 as a result of the lessons learned at the
recent exercise debrief.

- A full report will be made available soon and will be shared with all of ARES
  in Ontario and perhaps will appear in an article format in the TCA later on.
For now, ARES DMAP manual version 2.0 works!  

- I want to thank AEC Mike, VE3FFK (Exercise Manager) and ADEC Lance, VA3LP
  (Staging area reception) for their help with both the DMAP manual review work
and with the deployed exercise. I also wish to thank both Net Control
operators, Bob - VA3QV and Margaret - VE3VXN.  It was a good exercise.

Mike, VE3IPC - ARES DEC.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Total Number of Registered Stations: 171
Number of Net Sessions, Drills or Tests Reported This Month: 8
