~ April 2012 - [Eastern Ontario] SEAWAY & CAPITAL ARES Districts ~

Counties of Renfrew, of Lanark, of Leeds-Grenville, of Prescott-Russell & of
Stormont, Dundas & Glengarry, Cities of Ottawa & of Cornwall

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As this is a very active and busy month, there are 7 reports in all from the 2
Districts.

- The Prescott-Russell ARES group has been active on the usual Tuesday night
  nets alternating between the VA3PRA (Alfred Ontario) Repeater and VE3PRV
Clarence-Rockland) Repeater.  An average of 8 members check in. Our OBS
station, Ron VA3RRZ provides our group with the latest RAC bulletins. As well,
we regularly meet every Thursday evening at the Chamberlain Centre in Rockland,
courtesy of the City of Clarence Rockland. Discussions range from upcoming
activities in support of the community, to ARES activities in support of other
ARES Groups. This month our group utilized amateur radio communications to
provide support to the City of Clarence Rockland for it’s Annual Ride with
Rendall bicycle race. This is a grueling 85 KM race over multi-surface roads
throughout the countryside. In the command post was our senior operator, Don
VE3RM working Net Control with Deb VA3VEG as his logger. Her station logs will
be used for years as excellent examples. Providing checkpoint security was Jim
VE3KV, Chris VA3NKE, Ron VA3RRZ, Harry VA3ZAK and Henry VA3OV. Riding in the
sweep vehicle was Wenda VA3WMT. In the lead vehicle providing APRS location
data and continuous feed video was Jean & Jean VE3OKK & VE3ZJS. Coordinating
the event was EC Lance VA3LP. Only one bike rider was seriously injured enough
to be transported to a hospital. Everything went well and both the City and the
race organizers expressed their gratitude for our support and are looking
forward to the next race in August in Clarence. 

- We had two representatives attend the Seaway-Capital District ARES Meeting in
  Ottawa, ON. Jean VE3OKK and EC Lance VA3LP were both impressed with the
exercise organized by the District ARES. This provided a much needed refresher
on the process to ask for help from our mutual aid partners. It allowed each
attendee to experience all of the steps in the District Mutual Aid Plan. Thanks
to DEC Mike VE3IPC and AEC (Ottawa ARES) Mike VE3FFK for organizing this for
the groups’ leadership teams.

- The PR-ARES group is now developing its plans for the summer. Upcoming is, of
  course Field Day. This year it will be held at Higginson’s Tower in Vankleek
Hill, near Hawkesbury, ON. As well we are planning support activities for
Canada Day festivities, Wendover Festival and Ottawa River Festival. All of
these activities occur in communities along the Ottawa River. This year we hope
to have the City of Clarence-Rockland have their annual table top exercise in
conjunction with the ARES SET.

- Due to the loss of individual RAC member insurance, the members of our group
  have been very active in incorporating an amateur radio club here in
Prescott- Russell. Ron VA3RRZ, Mark VE3TKN and Normand VA3NPL have been on the
leadership team to incorporate the club. As of this writing we now have a new
club in Eastern Ontario called the Prescott-Russell Amateur Radio Club. The
Club is in the process of acquiring insurance for amateur radio activities for
the Club and it’s members. They are presently seeking members. If you are in
Eastern Ontario, you are encouraged to come out and join the club. All amateurs
are encouraged to come out every Thursday evening to Chamberlain Centre in
Rockland to meet and greet your fellow amateurs.

======================================================================

- The EMRG/Ottawa ARES group conducted its usual monthly test of their
  repeaters in East, Central, West and South Ottawa, plus UHF in central Ottawa
and VE2CRA, the club repeater of the Ottawa ARC. The voice repeater tests were
headed by Dave, VE3KMV, with the participation of Bob VA3QV, Arthur VA3BIT, Ron
VA3ACZ, Tracy VA3TXN, Mike VE3KOY, and John VA3JBS. The BBS and Winlink VHF
gateways were also tested and found to be operational.

- The group hosted the annual meeting of ARES ECs and AECs from around the
  Eastern Ontario District. In addition to the usual sharing of information on
what is happening in each group's area, a tabletop end to end mutual aid
exercise was conducted. The date and venue for next year's meeting was also
set, a record amount of lead time for the district. I expect the Eastern
Ontario DEC will have more to say about the meeting in his report. In parallel
with the talk in for the meeting, a zero notice exercise was held for
EMRG/Ottawa ARES members. We will look at holding more of these in coming
months.

- Preparations were made for two public service events which happen in early
  May, the Lanark Highlands Forest Rally on May 5, followed immediately by the
CN Cycle tour on May 6. Preparing for two events that occur back to back is a
challenge. The situation gets our Ottawa ARES participants to think about how
to do a quick turnaround and changing of equipment. On one day they must be
prepared for operation in a self contained, isolated rural environment and on
the next, they are in the heart of "intermod alley" with serious restrictions
on where they can place their vehicles, if any. Some also have to transition
from operating in a fixed location out of their car to going bicycle mobile.
Two very different sets of skills and equipment are needed.

Mike VE3FFK Reporting in for Ottawa ARES group EC.

======================================================================

- Renfrew County West (RCW)-ARES group EC Bob VE3YX on the 28th attended the
  Capital / Seaway ARES District meeting where an informative exercise of the
DMAP District Mutual Aid Plan was held. The exercise provided a comprehensive
run through of the process from initial alerting to on scene deployment. This
exercise format will be used for an exercise of our own group.

- From Fri. 27th through Sun. 29th, RCW-ARES shared a booth with the Renfrew
  Co. ARC at the Petawawa Civic Centre for an Outdoor show. This was our first
attempt at a show like this from the Civic Centre. We were led to believe that
we would be able to put mag mount antennas on the steel roof of the building,
but when we arrived to set up, the story had changed. We put a mag mount 5/8  2
meter antenna on the roof of a porch over an emergency exit. The antenna was
only a couple of feet from the steel East wall of the building, but it was
useful for operating with the repeaters East of us. We put a mag mount 20 M
Hamstick on a fence rail which should have provided a reasonable ground plane,
but it didn't work at all. Toward the end of the show, we found that by
disconnecting the coax shield at the mag mount, we could operate reasonably
well on 40 M.  We have a permanent 2 M Ringo Ranger mounted on the building,
but it was at the opposite corner from our booth and not at all accessible.

On display we had brochures, magazines, QSL cards and a slide show of past ARES
activities, but what seemed to get the most attention was Doug Wheelock's video
of Ham Radio aboard the ISS which we had looping on a laptop.

The turnout to the show was disappointing with only about 1800 people for the 3
days, but we had 8 or 10 who showed an interest and may follow up.

Manning the booth we had: Marilyn VE3ZYY, Yvonne VE3RYA, Lewis VE3QJ, Tony
VA3HWH, Richard VA3BIX, Rob VA3AGN, Bernie VA3SUR and Bob VE3YX.

And - yes it was VERY CCCCCCCold in the building!

======================================================================

The Renfrew County East (RCE)-ARES group was well represented by AEC Jim VA3JER
who attended the ARES District Mutual Aid conference in Ottawa on April 28. The
table-top exercise was informative and helpful with the forms and how to use
them. As soon as the corrections and updates are made the DMAP manual and the
exercise book and sent to the ECs in each area, we will be able to have an ARES
meeting and bring the rest of our members up to date after.  We will set a date
and practice the new system and will get out and set up some new municipal
clients.   

Other than that, nothing much to report this month except that a few of out
town snow birds have returned from the south and it brings our working members
up.

Jim VA3JER reporting for the RCE-ARES group EC.

======================================================================

- The Lanark North Leeds (LNL-ARES group membership remains stable, the weekly
  net continues, plans are afoot to participate in the Killty Run in Perth, the
Ottawa Bicycle Club Annual Ottawa-Kingston Tour, Field Day, and weekly Saturday
breakfasts in Perth. Other events will probably take place as well. 

- Our call out procedure with Rideau Lakes Township has been updated, at their
  request. Several new arrivals (Amateurs) are likely to join our ranks
shortly. We have received a donation of several repeaters, and as time permits
we will be upgrading several of our present sites. A 6kw generator belonging to
LNL-ARES is being donated to the Almonte Group in order to provide standby
power at their Union Hall D-Star repeater site.

Norm VE3VY reporting for the LNL-ARES group EC.

======================================================================

- The SD&G (formally Cornwall) ARES group close association with the SVARC
  continues.   The group’s last meeting took place on April 23, 2012 at the
Cornwall Armoury.      

- The Official ARES Bulletins continue to be read by the EC and Net Controllers
  on Mondays at 7:00 PM local on the club’s local 2-Metre net on VE3SVC
(147.180MHz.+).  

- SD&G-ARES expansion from the former “City of Cornwall ARES” is taking place.
  Following our local Skype meeting earlier in 2012 this announcement was well
received at the April 2012 SVARC meeting. 

- SD&G-ARES group plans to provide emergency radio communications services to
  the Glengarry Memorial Hospital have begun.  Our group’s association with the
Cornwall Community Hospital (McConnell Street Site – the former Hotel Dieu
hospital) continues.  Thanks go to the 7 HAMs who participated in the Comms
exercise with the Glengarry Memorial Hospital on April 27, 2012 in Alexandria
Ontario.  During the exercise four methods were used to demonstrate possible
radio communication methods between the hospital and Ottawa.

- Following the above exercise the group’s EC Earle VE3IMP met with the CEMC
  for Alexandria in the Township of North Glengarry and a liaison has begun.
This opens additional opportunities for SD&G-ARES.

- The group was well represented by AEC John VA3JO at the annual ARES District
  mutual aid conference in Ottawa.

======================================================================

Eastern Ontario ARES District EC Mike - VE3IPC brief conference report

- The Eastern Ontario ARES District [Mutual Aid] 2012 annual conference took
  place on April 28 at the Ottawa City Hall building from 1000 to 1700 local
time, thanks to the Ottawa (EMRG) ARES group. This year we held a table-top
exercise as a follow-up to the April 2010 deployed exercise, testing all major
aspects of the District Mutual Aid Program (DMAP) manual, and last year’s April
2011 deployed exercise, testing in particular the staging area & briefing area
of the DMAP that had challenges in 2010.  With lessons learned from both 2010
and 2011 exercises, this one time table-top exercise was designed for all
participants to experience all major aspects of the DMAP.  

- This exercise provided ‘hands on’ experience through each of the SOPs built
  into the DMAP manual, so that each ARES group leadership would have a better
understanding and feel of the DMAP processes. Armed with this experience and
with the training tools that we at the ARES District level will soon be able to
provide them, each group leadership will then be able to train their group
membership who will then be better able to make or respond to a mutual aid call
for help.  It is worth mentioning here that a good portion of the DMAP manual
can be used at the local level as part of the group’s ARES Operation Manual.

- The main training tool will be what we call, ‘the DMAP playbook’ which we
  needed to create in order to conduct the table-top exercise.  We have a few
lessons learned from this exercise that will be reflected into the final
version of the playbook.  Once the playbook is finalized we will release both,
the DMAP manual version 3.0 and the DMAP playbook along with one audio file
that was also used for the table-top exercise.

- The DMAP manual is being tweaked as we speak and improved once again as we
  labor to have a more professional manual that reads well and flows better
from one section to the other.  There are also a few proposed changes to the
DMAP process that will need approval from the majority of the ECs, so that
these can be implemented.  These proposed changes came as a result of carefully
reviewing the SOPs involved in last year’s deployed staging and briefing
exercise and tested in this year’s table-top exercise.

- We will soon be sending each EC their DMAP contact list to be reviewed and
  updated. Once this has been completed by each EC, we will then send the
combined DMAP revised 2012 contact list to each EC, so that they can send to
each of their AECs and keep with their DMAP manual, just in case a call for
help needs to occur.

- Exercise organizers were; AEC Mike - VE3FFK and DEC Mike - VE3IPC.

- Exercise participants were; Ottawa ARC Pres. & Deputy Director Glen MacDonald
  - VE3XRA, PR-ARES EC Lance - VA3LP, PR-ARES AEC Jean – VE3OKK, Ottawa ARES EC
    Richard – VE3UNW, Loyalist DEC Bill - VA3WOW, RCE-ARES AEC Jim – VE3JER,
RCW-ARES EC Bob – VE3YX, SD&G (Cornwall) ARES AEC John – VA3JO, Quebec SEC &
Deputy Director Normand – VE2NHK, and a New Ham & SEC helper Carole –VA2NDJ.

- IMS presenter was; Peter – VE3BQP.

- Our thanks go to the Ottawa [EMRG] ARES group leadership for hosting the
  conference, and our many thanks go to the meeting facilitators who were;
retired EC Ottawa [EMRG] ARES Peter – VE3BQP and Ottawa [EMRG] ARES AEC Harold
– VE3UNK.  

- At this year’s conference, DEC Mike VE3IPC has announced that ADEC Lance
  VA3LP has accepted taking the position as the NEW DEC for Seaway and Capital
ARES Districts (Eastern Ontario) as of September 1st 2012.  This came partly
because of the personal need to move on after 8 years of being the DEC for
Eastern Ontario ARES and for being available for the Section Manager’s position
for when this becomes available for Ontario East Section.

- Following this announcement, two (DEC-VE3IPC) Certificates of Merit we given;
  one to ADEC Lance VA3LP for 8 years of loyal and very helpful dedication to
the ARES District, and one to Mike VE3FFK as District Exercise Manager for 3
years of hard work and dedication in preparations for and the conducting of
three ARES District Mutual Aid exercises for 2010, 2011 and 2012.

- The incoming replacement DEC, Lance – VA3LP who is currently the EC for
  Prescott-Russell ARES, has announced that the next ARES District conference
will be in Clarence – Rockland Ontario on April 27th 2013.  This certainly
provides for a lot of lead time for the next annual conference preparations.

- A more comprehensive report will be made available very shortly regarding
  both the 2011 deployed exercise and additional info regarding the 2012
table-top exercise.

***************************************

Very interesting report given by Loyalist DEC Bill - VA3WOW
To the attendees at the ARES District conference on April 28 in Ottawa
And has given me permission to share this with you all

From: Bill (VA3WOW)
Date: 22 February, 2012 10:22:11 EST
Subject: [Phone Comms services were inoperable]

Approaching noon on Thursday February 17, 2012  I received a phone call from
the Emergency Planning Coordinator for Hastings County informing me that there
was a situation in which phone and related communication services were
inoperable north of Belleville in the County of Hastings. 

I was advised that there was no fire service coverage for two isolated
communities, one in the centre and one in the extreme north of Hastings County.
We (ARES) were able to send an amateur radio operator to each of the two
communities, as well as set up a 2 meter radio station at a fire hall in the
centre of the county. We were able to establish radio communication with the
two isolated communities, as well as my location in the City of Belleville
through the radio station at the fire hall in Eldorado. I was able to pass
information to and from the Hastings County emergency management team. In
mid-afternoon our network was joined by amateur radio operators at the
Belleville Red Cross building. 

Later in the afternoon, amateur radio operators from Belleville and Marmora as
well as the Tweed area were dispatched to establish that there was
communication from the local nursing homes and retirement residences to
emergency fire services.

At 10:00 PM I received word from the emergency management coordinator for
Hastings County that communication had been reestablished with the north and
central areas of Hastings County. 

At that time I informed the active amateur radio operators, as well as those
who were standing by in the areas around the municipalities of Kingston and
Perth, that they could stand down. 

Matthew Dwight, VE3OCC, who had driven from Picton to Bolter a distance of 350
kilometers was released from his operating position at that time.  He arrived
back home in Picton after one o'clock a.m. 
