This month had many more marks on the calendar than the previous one.  In
addition to the usual monthly test of our repeaters, our members assisted with
safety communications at the Lanark Highlands forest rally, and the CN Cycle
for CHEO, and the ARES District meeting.

The repeater test was conducted on May 1 by Dave VE3KMC, and Ron VA3ACZ. The
voice repeaters, two BBS systems and the Winlink node were all found to be
operating normally. Peter VE3BQP has put in yet more work to ensure the BBS
systems are in good shape, with more to come.

Three days later, the Lanark Highlands Forest Rally was assisted by 33 hams, of
which the following are EMRG members: Tyler VA3DGN, Harold VA3UNK, Margaret
VA3VXN, Mike VE3FFK, Heidi VE3HHP, Rick VE3IHI, Gord VE3XGP and Alan VE3ZTU.

The day after that, Sunday May 5, Ron VA3ACZ, Arthur VA3BIT, Tyler VA3DGN,
Jamie VA3JME, Harold VA3UNK, Christine VA3VAK, Margaret VA3VXN, Paul VE3CPH,
Mike VE3FFK, Dave VE3KMV, Heidi VE3HHP, Stuart VE3SMF, Richard VE3UNW, VE3XGP
Gord, Glenn VE3XRA, Alan VE3ZTU (and perhaps others I've missed) assisted with
safety and other communications for the CN Cycle for CHEO (Children's Hospital
for Eastern Ontario). As mentioned last month, a part of our participation
consisted of providing our knowledge built up over past years to a new group of
organizers. Once again, having APRS on bicycle mobile stations was especially
helpful. Also once again, having two different events on consecutive days was a
challenge.

Finally, Tim VA3PYC, Harold VA3UNK, Peter VE3BQP, Mike VE3FFK, Dave VE3KMV,
Mike VE3KOY and Richard VE3UNW participated in the ARES district meeting May
25. Much of the meeting was spent on familiarization with the Outpost software,
which was widely recognized as the software to use for BBS operation. It seems
different groups use the software in slightly different ways, but all saw the
merit in bringing members "up to speed" on Outpost for both interoperability
and mutual aid exchanges. Some work was done to ensure that each group knows
how to contact their neighbours via packet. The mutual aid plan was finalized
(to the extent that any emergency plan can be).

Coming up in June is the Rideau Lakes Cycle Tour, which involves three ARES
groups over two days between Ottawa and Kingston. Although EMRG/Ottawa ARES
does not run a field day operation of its own, members are encouraged to visit
the sites of the various clubs to both learn and lend their expertise.

73 Mike Kelly VE3FFK, Ottawa ARES AEC, reporting for
Richard Hagemeyer, VE3UNW Ottawa ARES EC/ EMRG team leader.
